# InnovAct2025_Team_Genesis
# Autonomous-UAV-System-for-Subterranean-3D-mapping-and-gas-detection
1. This repository features a fully autonomous drone which works in a GPS denied environment, using TriEye and Ultra sonic sensors. The application of this drone is Hazardous   Gas Detection and Mapping in Underground Mines using gas detection, TriEye and utrasonic sensors
2. The sesnors consist of Ultrasonic sensor (Object Detection),IMU(Inertial Measurement Unit-For Acceleration and Gyro of drone),MQ-9 (For detecting CO and CH4),NDIR(Non-Dispersive Infrared Sensor-CO2),AO-O2(For O2) and Trieye Sensor(Used for 3D mapping).
3. The drone works on a communication methos known as breadcrumb which is a device having it's own source(LiPO) ,LoRa Radio module and STM32F401CCU6 inside which acts as microcontroller and it oversees all the basic function of repeater module. A threshold for signal strength is set to be at a certain dBm according to certain terrain conditions.When the drone's signal strength falls below the set threshold it will deploy a breadcrumb module which is treated as a payload.These breadcrumb modules forms a LoRa mesh network through which the data  transmitted from drone to the nearest repeater and then it reaches the base station through efficient hopping of data packages over the repeater modules. A major advantage of this mesh system is that even if a repeater module stops working the system is still intact and data can still get transmitted smoothly.
4. We used the ParrotMiniDrone support package of Simulink to make our drone's working software. We first made the image processing block by setting a reference image and converted it from RGB to BW form thereby making it easy for drone to identify the path and follow. Then we incorporated the sensors - MQ9, NIDAR, AO-O2 and Trieye to do the gas detection and  path mapping, we made changes in signal processing block to deploy this. Then for the drone to fly and avoid obstacle we made the Path planning algorithm using Stateflow and Simulink by giving all the necessary operations like takeoff, move forward, right left, return and landing. To get the outputs of the sensors as the data requirements we have used the scop blocks.
